# Reflection

Prior to taking this course, I had never considered what the process was for producing historical work online. Additionally, I had never considered how using historical data could pose ethical problems. This week, one of the posted materials was a Twitter thread that observed how collections are made available as data. After reading through the thread, I learned that the process seems quite demanding as it requires multiple teams to fulfill multiple steps. I have little background in computer coding, or really anything computer-related at all, but I enjoyed learning about what it takes to put data online. This made me reflect on how Carleton has made accessing online resources either challenging or easy for students. So far in my academic career, I have not experienced too much difficulty with accessing materials. However, that does not mean other students have enjoyed the same experience. I would hope that Carleton ensures that the materials they make available to students are easily accessible because every student deserves to access such resources with ease. With this being said, I can think of one barrier that may prevent students here at Carleton from accessing available materials. Although I do not know much about computers or technology in general, I would assume that some computers may not be "sufficient" enough to run specific programs. For example, this could be because their software is outdated. This could evidently prevent users from accessing materials. I hope that after this course is over, I become more aware of what materials I am able to access online and I appreciate the time and effort it took to produce such data. 
